---
title: Convert VDX to PDF via .NET 
weight: 4510
url: /net/conversion/vdx-to-pdf/ 
description: Try our On-Premise APIs with your document on .NET Framework, .NET Core, Mono or COM Interop.
---

{{< blocks/products/pf/main-wrap-class isAutogenPage="true">}}
{{< blocks/products/pf/upper-banner h1="Convert VDX to PDF via C#" h2="Export Microsoft® Visio VDX files to PDF on .NET Framework, .NET Core, Mono or COM Interop." logoImageSrc="https://www.aspose.com/templates/aspose/App_Themes/V3/images/diagram/272x272/aspose_diagram-for-net.png" sourceAdditionalConversionTag="" additionalConversionTag="PDF" pfName="Aspose.Diagram" subTitlepfName="for .NET" downloadUrl="" fileiconsmall1="HTML" fileiconsmall2="JPG" fileiconsmall3="PDF" fileiconsmall4="XML" fileiconsmall5="VDX" >}}

{{< blocks/products/pf/main-container pfName="Aspose.Diagram " subTitlepfName="for .NET" >}}
{{< blocks/products/pf/sub-menu autoGeneratedVersion="true" logoImageSrc="https://www.aspose.com/templates/aspose/App_Themes/V3/images/diagram/272x272/aspose_diagram-for-net.png" apiHomeLink="https://products.aspose.app/diagram/family" codeSamplesLink="https://github.com/aspose-diagram" liveDemosLink="https://products.aspose.app/diagram/family" docsLink="https://docs.aspose.com/diagram/net" installationsDocsLink="https://docs.aspose.com/diagram/net" nugetLink="https://www.nuget.org/packages/aspose.diagram" nugetPackageName="" downloadAsLink="" learnAsLink="" apiReference="" >}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/content h2="Export Microsoft" %}}

 In order to convert VDX to PDF, we’ll use
 [Aspose.Diagram for .NET](https://products.aspose.com/diagram/net) 
 API which is a feature-rich, powerful and easy to use document manipulation and conversion API for C# platform. Open
 [NuGet](https://www.nuget.org/packages/aspose.diagram) 
 package manager, search for
 **Aspose.Diagram** 
 and install. You may also use the following command from the Package Manager Console.

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/code-block title="Aspose.Diagram" offSpacer="true" %}}

```cs

PM> Install-Package Aspose.Diagram

```

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/code-block %}}

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/content %}}

{{< blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section isGrey="true" >}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section-col title="Steps to Convert VDX to PDF via C#" %}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/text %}}

 Aspose.Diagram makes it easy for the developers to load & convert VDX files to PDF in just a few lines of code.

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/text %}}

1.  Load VDX file with an instance of Diagram class
1.  Call the Diagram.Save method with output file path and SaveFileFormat.PDF as parameters
1.  PDF file will be saved at the specified path

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section-col %}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section-col title="System Requirements" %}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/text %}}

 Aspose.Diagram for .NET is supported on all major operating systems. Just make sure that you have the following prerequisites.

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/text %}}

-  Microsoft Windows or a compatible OS with .NET Framework, .NET Core, Mono or COM Interop.
-  Development environment like Microsoft Visual Studio.
-  Aspose.Diagram for .NET DLL referenced in your project.

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section-col %}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/code-block title="Command" offSpacer="" %}}

```cs
// load the VDX in an object of Diagram 
var visio = new Aspose.Diagram.Diagram("template.vdx");
// save VDX as PDF 
visio.Save("output.pdf", Aspose.Diagram.SaveFileFormat.PDF); 

```

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/code-block %}}

{{< /blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section >}}

    {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/faq-item question="" answer="" >}}
 

<!-- aboutfile Starts -->

{{< blocks/products/pf/agp/demobox sectionTitle="Free App to Convert VDX to PDF" sectionDescription="Check our live demos for [VDX to PDF conversion](https://products.aspose.app/diagram/conversion/vdx-to-pdf) with following benefits." >}}
        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/democard icon="fa-cogs" text=" No need to download or setup anything." >}}
        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/democard icon="fa-edit" text=" No need to write any code." >}}
        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/democard icon="fa-file-text" text=" Just upload your VDX file and hit the \"Convert\" button." >}}
        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/democard icon="fa-download" text=" You will instantly get the download link for resultant PDF file." >}}

    {{% blocks/products/pf/agp/content h2="How to Convert VDX to PDF Using C#" %}}

 A Diagram Management Library specially designed to work with Microsoft Visio files. It allows developers to create, manipulate & convert native Visio formats. Developers can create diagrams from scratch as well as easily load existing files and manipulate the elements of the diagram to export the result in other formats.



    {{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/content %}}

    {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-section >}}

        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-text fileFormat="VDX" readMoreLink="https://docs.fileformat.com/image/vdx/" >}}
Any drawing or chart created in Microsoft Visio, but saved in XML format have .VDX extension. A Visio drawing XML file is created in Visio software, which is developed by Microsoft. Microsoft Visio has the capability to generate visual documents that can be used in presentations and documents. The Visio drawing XML file contains the visual objects and metadata details of the visual elements. Text can also be added to these visual elements Vision drawing XML file. These Visio drawing XML files are integrated with XML-based formatting standards and image data encoding specifications that allow its content to be rendered and stored by the Microsoft Visio software in the VDX file format.

        {{< /blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-text >}}

        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-text fileFormat="pdf" readMoreLink="https://docs.fileformat.com/view/pdf/" >}}
Portable Document Format (PDF) is a type of document created by Adobe back in 1990s. The purpose of this file format was to introduce a standard for representation of documents and other reference material in a format that is independent of application software, hardware as well as Operating System. PDF files can be opened in Adobe Acrobat Reader/Writer as well in most modern browsers like Chrome, Safari, Firefox via extensions/plug-ins. Most of the commercially available software suites also offer conversion of their documents to PDF file format without the requirement of any additional software component. Thus, PDF file format has full capability to contain information like text, images, hyperlinks, form-fields, rich media, digital signatures, attachments, metadata, Geospatial features and 3D objects in it that can become as part of source document.

        {{< /blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-text >}}

    {{< /blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-section >}}

{{< /blocks/products/pf/agp/demobox >}}

<!-- aboutfile Ends -->

{{< /blocks/products/pf/main-container >}}
    
{{< /blocks/products/pf/main-wrap-class >}}