---
title: Convert VSDM to VSSM via .NET 
weight: 3240
url: /net/conversion/vsdm-to-vssm/ 
description: Try our On-Premise APIs with your document on .NET Framework, .NET Core, Mono or COM Interop.
---

{{< blocks/products/pf/main-wrap-class isAutogenPage="true">}}
{{< blocks/products/pf/upper-banner h1="Convert VSDM to VSSM via C#" h2="Export MicrosoftВ® Visio VSDM files to VSSM on .NET Framework, .NET Core, Mono or COM Interop." logoImageSrc="https://www.aspose.com/templates/aspose/App_Themes/V3/images/diagram/272x272/aspose_diagram-for-net.png" sourceAdditionalConversionTag="" additionalConversionTag="VSSM" pfName="Aspose.Diagram" subTitlepfName="for .NET" downloadUrl="" fileiconsmall1="HTML" fileiconsmall2="JPG" fileiconsmall3="PDF" fileiconsmall4="XML" fileiconsmall5="VSDM" >}}

{{< blocks/products/pf/main-container pfName="Aspose.Diagram " subTitlepfName="for .NET" >}}
{{< blocks/products/pf/sub-menu autoGeneratedVersion="true" logoImageSrc="https://www.aspose.com/templates/aspose/App_Themes/V3/images/diagram/272x272/aspose_diagram-for-net.png" apiHomeLink="https://products.aspose.app/diagram/family" codeSamplesLink="https://github.com/aspose-diagram" liveDemosLink="https://products.aspose.app/diagram/family" docsLink="https://docs.aspose.com/diagram/net" installationsDocsLink="https://docs.aspose.com/diagram/net" nugetLink="https://www.nuget.org/packages/aspose.diagram" nugetPackageName="" downloadAsLink="" learnAsLink="" apiReference="" >}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/content h2="Export Microsoft" %}}

 In order to convert VSDM to VSSM, weвЂ™ll use
 [Aspose.Diagram for .NET](https://products.aspose.com/diagram/net) 
 API which is a feature-rich, powerful and easy to use document manipulation and conversion API for C# platform. Open
 [NuGet](https://www.nuget.org/packages/aspose.diagram) 
 package manager, search for
 **Aspose.Diagram** 
 and install. You may also use the following command from the Package Manager Console.

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/code-block title="Aspose.Diagram" offSpacer="true" %}}

```cs

PM> Install-Package Aspose.Diagram

```

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/code-block %}}

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/content %}}

{{< blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section isGrey="true" >}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section-col title="Steps to Convert VSDM to VSSM via C#" %}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/text %}}

 Aspose.Diagram makes it easy for the developers to load & convert VSDM files to VSSM in just a few lines of code.

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/text %}}

1.  Load VSDM file with an instance of Diagram class
1.  Call the Diagram.Save method with output file path and SaveFileFormat.VSSM as parameters
1.  VSSM file will be saved at the specified path

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section-col %}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section-col title="System Requirements" %}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/text %}}

 Aspose.Diagram for .NET is supported on all major operating systems. Just make sure that you have the following prerequisites.

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/text %}}

-  Microsoft Windows or a compatible OS with .NET Framework, .NET Core, Mono or COM Interop.
-  Development environment like Microsoft Visual Studio.
-  Aspose.Diagram for .NET DLL referenced in your project.

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section-col %}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/code-block title="Command" offSpacer="" %}}

```cs
// load the VSDM in an object of Diagram 
var visio = new Aspose.Diagram.Diagram("template.vsdm");
// save VSDM as VSSM 
visio.Save("output.vssm", Aspose.Diagram.SaveFileFormat.VSSM); 

```

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/code-block %}}

{{< /blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section >}}

    {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/faq-item question="" answer="" >}}
 

<!-- aboutfile Starts -->

{{< blocks/products/pf/agp/demobox sectionTitle="Free App to Convert VSDM to VSSM" sectionDescription="Check our live demos for [VSDM to VSSM conversion](https://products.aspose.app/diagram/conversion/vsdm-to-vssm) with following benefits." >}}
        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/democard icon="fa-cogs" text=" No need to download or setup anything." >}}
        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/democard icon="fa-edit" text=" No need to write any code." >}}
        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/democard icon="fa-file-text" text=" Just upload your VSDM file and hit the \"Convert\" button." >}}
        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/democard icon="fa-download" text=" You will instantly get the download link for resultant VSSM file." >}}

    {{% blocks/products/pf/agp/content h2="How to Convert VSDM to VSSM Using C#" %}}

 A Diagram Management Library specially designed to work with Microsoft Visio files. It allows developers to create, manipulate & convert native Visio formats. Developers can create diagrams from scratch as well as easily load existing files and manipulate the elements of the diagram to export the result in other formats.



    {{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/content %}}

    {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-section >}}

        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-text fileFormat="VSDM" readMoreLink="https://docs.fileformat.com/image/vsdm/" >}}
Files with VSDM extension are drawing files created with Microsoft Visio application that supports macros. VSDM files are OPC/XML drawings that are similar to VSDX but also provide the capability to run macros when the file is opened. Macros are user defined actions/steps that are developed in Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) and can be used to perform repeatitive tasks. VSDM file format was introduced with the launch of Microsoft Visio 2013.  Visio files are used to create drawings that contain visual objects, flow charts, UML diagram, information flow, organizational charts, software diagrams, network layout, database models, objects mapping and other similar information. Files generated using Visio can also be exported to different file formats such as PNG, BMP, PDF and others.

        {{< /blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-text >}}

        {{< blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-text fileFormat="vssm" readMoreLink="https://docs.fileformat.com/image/vssm/" >}}
Files with .VSSM extension are Microsoft Visio Stencil files that support provide support for macros. A VSSM file when opened allows to run the macros to achieve desired formatting and placement of shapes in a diagram. In general, Microsoft Visio is drawing software that allows to create files that can contain and represent user defined information in different shapes. The most common of these include, but not limited to, UML diagrams, flow charts, visual objects, information flow, organizational charts, software diagrams, network layout, database models, objects mapping and other similar information. Files generated using Visio can also be converted to different file formats such as PNG, BMP, PDF and others.

        {{< /blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-text >}}

    {{< /blocks/products/pf/agp/about-file-section >}}

{{< /blocks/products/pf/agp/demobox >}}

<!-- aboutfile Ends -->

{{< /blocks/products/pf/main-container >}}
    
{{< /blocks/products/pf/main-wrap-class >}}